Java Interview questions

1.What is the difference between JDK and JRE?
2. What is Java Virtual Machine (JVM)?
3. What are the different types of memory areas allocated by JVM?
4. What is JIT compiler?
5. How Java platform is different from other platforms?
6. Why people say that Java is 'write once and run anywhere' language?
7. Do you think ‘main’ used for main method is a keyword in Java?
8. Can we write main method as public void static instead of public static void?
9. In Java, if we do not specify any value for local variables, then what will be the default value of the local variables?

OOP

10. What are the main principles of Object Oriented Programming?
11. What is the difference between Object Oriented Programming
language and Object Based Programming language?
12. In Java what is the default value of an object reference defined as an
instance variable in an Object?
13. Why do we need constructor in Java?
14 What is the value returned by Constructor in Java?
15. Can we inherit a Constructor?
16. Why constructors cannot be final, static, or abstract in Java? 

Inheritance

17. What is the purpose of ‘this’ keyword in java?
18. Explain the concept of Inheritance?
19. Which class in Java is superclass of every other class?
20. Why Java does not support multiple inheritance?
21. What is the purpose of ‘super’ keyword in java?
22. Is it possible to use this() and super() both in same constructor?
23. In Java, why do we use static variable?
24. Why it is not a good practice to create static variables in Java?
25. What is the purpose of static method in Java?
26. What happens when static modifier is not mentioned in the signature of main method?
27. What is the difference between static method and instance method in Java?

Method Overloading

28. What is the other name of Method Overloading?
29. How will you implement method overloading in Java?
30. What kinds of argument variations are allowed in Method Overloading?
31. Why it is not possible to do method overloading by changing return type of method in java?
32. Is it allowed to overload main() method in Java?